.TH MDTERM 1 "2024" "mdterm 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mdterm \- Markdown Terminal Renderer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdterm
[\fItext\fR]
.br
.B mdterm
.B \-f
.I file
[\fIfile\fR...]
.br
.B mdterm
.B \-\-file
.I file
[\fIfile\fR...]
.br
.I command
|
.B mdterm
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mdterm
renders markdown syntax with terminal colors and formatting using cprintf.
It converts markdown headings, emphasis, inline code, code blocks, and underlines
to styled terminal output.
.PP
The tool supports reading from command line arguments, standard input, or files.
Code blocks can be syntax-highlighted using
.BR bat (1)
if available.
.SH SUPPORTED MARKDOWN
.TP
.B # Heading 1
Rendered with H1 style (cyan+)
.TP
.B ## Heading 2
Rendered with H2 style (yellow+)
.TP
.B ### Heading 3
Rendered with H3 style (magenta)
.TP
.B #### Heading 4
Rendered with H4 style (white+)
.TP
.B *italic*
Rendered with italic style
.TP
.B **bold**
Rendered with bold style
.TP
.B ***bold italic***
Rendered with bold + italic style
.TP
.B `code`
Inline code (green on black)
.TP
.B _underline_
Rendered with underline style
.TP
.B ```lang
Fenced code blocks with optional syntax highlighting
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " \fIfile\fR"
Read from file(s). Once specified, all remaining arguments are treated as file paths.
Multiple files can be specified and will be rendered sequentially.
.TP
.BI \-\-bat\-args " \"args\""
Additional arguments to pass to
.BR bat (1)
for code block rendering.
Default: "\-p \-\-color=always"
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit
.SH CODE BLOCKS
Fenced code blocks (```lang...```) are rendered with syntax highlighting if
.BR bat (1)
is installed. The language identifier after the opening backticks determines
the syntax highlighting language. If
.B bat
is not available, code blocks use the default code style (green on black).
Inline code always uses the default style regardless of
.B bat
availability.
.SH STYLE COMBINATIONS
Styles can be nested for combined effects:
.PP
.RS
.B _*italic underline*_
.br
.B _**bold underline**_
.RE
.PP
Processing order: code, ***, **, *, _
.SH EXAMPLES
Render text from arguments:
.RS
.B mdterm "# Title\\nSome *italic* text"
.RE
.PP
Render from stdin:
.RS
.B echo "# Title" | mdterm
.br
.B cat README.md | mdterm
.RE
.PP
Render from file(s):
.RS
.B mdterm \-f README.md
.br
.B mdterm \-f file1.md file2.md file3.md
.RE
.PP
Use custom bat theme:
.RS
.B mdterm \-\-bat\-args "\-\-theme=Dracula \-\-style=numbers" \-f code.md
.RE
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B Required
.BR cprintf (1)
must be in PATH or in the same directory as mdterm
.TP
.B Optional
.BR bat (1)
for syntax-highlighted code blocks
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
File not found or invalid usage
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Anton Koekemoer
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License \- see LICENSE file for details.
.br
License: MIT License
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cprintf (1),
.BR bat (1)
